# Bayesian Parameter Estimation in Bjorken Flow

This project serves as a proof of concept for apply Bayesian analysis methods to relativistic hydrodynamics and quark gluon plasma evolution.
The goal is to assess whether or not the observables are able to adequately constrain the posterior distributions of the parameters (given by nature), to justify pursuing applications to real data.

# How To Run

1. Clone this project, be sure to use the `--recursive` option to clone the submodules as well.
1. Run the setup_submodules.sh script in scripts folder to ensure all the 3rd party libraries are properly cloned.  
   The fmt library is not actually needed, but for those that like its functionality, they can easily build and install it for their system.
1. There are example codes in the test directory to show how this code base can be used for several types of caluclations, not just Bayesian inference.  
   These can be built by running the proper make commands. Below, I include a table that maps the make commands to the existing test files  
   | File | `make` command |
   | --- | --- |
   | `test_moments_of_dist_func.cpp` | `make test_moments; make run_test_moments` |
   | `test_run_all_hydro.cpp`        | `make test_hydros; make run_test_hydros`   |
1. To run the code for Bayesian parameter estimation, please edit the params.txt fil in the utills folder and than run the command `make run` (if you haven't made the project yet, please run the command `make` first)
1. The code includes a python3 file output, that can be run via the command line, or copied/imported into a Jupyter notebook. This script can be found in the scripts folder.
   This script reads in all the .DAT files generated by the C++ code and makes the usual corner plots seen in python implementations of Bayesian analysis.

# How to cite
The paper is currently still being published, but this document will be updated with the relevant sources when everything is read.